# Leads & Unattributed Clues

### Unanswered Questions

- What does clocking in & out do? Note says it's related to payroll
- Does the trueness of memo colors persiste between runs, or is it different? (seen same: 2)
- Combination to boudoir safe
- Are doors with keyholes just _potentially_ locked, and doors without keyholes never locked?
- Does "west wing" and "east wing" just mean the left and right sides of the map, respectively?
- Can garages only be drafted on the edge of the map? (i.e. columns 1 and 5)
- There is a safe in the Office
- Model airplane in bushes outside? (west?)

### Map drawing on wall

- layout of house, entrance hall & antechamber are on the map
- letter "E" at [1, 2] (has been seen 2 times nowon the wall in a room at [1, 2])

### Note to "bridgette"

- calls for an "even spread" for the guest
  - 5 apples
  - 5 bananas
  - 5 oranges
- "50 steps should be more than enough"

### Box game

- at LEAST one will always tell the truth
- at LEAST one will always lie
- only one has something in it

### Kitchen

- sink is interactable but doesn't have water?

### Den

Clocks: they do advance

### Courtyard

- Can have a metal detector (guaranteed?)

### Security Room

- Blue memos = true, Red memos = false (unless written by hand)

### Clocking in & out

- Terminals are in Security & Laboratory rooms
- Terminal password starts with "S"

### Boudoir

- There is a safe (free gem)
  - combination was 1225 (Christmas Day, safe was a gift
  - contained letter (red, with "4" on the front) from Daniel admonishing Herbert for his treatment of Marion's (mom??) death (she was a rebel?)

### Utility Closet

- Can toggle off keycard system
- Light puzzle: "V.A.C. indicators" (see note)
- First encounter: four breaker switch locations
  - Gymnasium (switch present)
  - Dark room (switch present)
  - Garage (switch present)
  - Cabinet (crossed out and no switch present)
  - none of the above rooms were present in the floorplan when this room was encountered

### Dark Room

- When first entered power turns off
- Power can be turned back on at a Utility Closet
- Contains note talking about a request to develop specific pictures
- Note references an "enlarged print of the enclosed photograph," which does not appear to be the picture which appears behind the note. The central table in the darkroom features a picture of Sinclair with a camera, and a blown-up feature of just the camera. The camera is labeled "Synka Co," and the room appears to have a bathtub in it.
- There are several versions of a picture featuring maids in various levels of overexposure

### Garage

- Car license plate: `SWNSNG`
- When power is on, door can be opened for access to the outer grounds

### Grounds

- Entered at: rank 4

### Shelter (outer room)

- Terminal with these options:
  - Time-lock safe
    - must set time at least one hour in future (date + time)
    - safe will remain open for 4 hours once opened
  - Radiation Monitor
  - Login to network
    - requires password
- radiation is generated by experimentsin the Laboratory
- if radiation reading is 12 uSv or higher, all doors in the house will unlock

### Conference room

- Gathers all "spread" items

### Bunk room

There is a hamster.

### Commissary

- Drawing: Hand with pencil drawing globe (post-it note: "with?")
- Drawing: Biplane (post-it-note: "without?")

### Lavatory

- Guaranteed to have three items if you have the sheltered condition
- Otherwise will not have any items

### Mail Room

- Mail bag in corner has several numbers on it
  - `4534782` (more obvious)
  - `34562343` (tiny)
- Letter from Simon's dad to Simon, implying that Day 1 is a Saturday (Simon arrives on a Friday night)

### Gymnasium

- Lose 2 steps whenever entering
- Turning power off removes this downside
