# Leads & Unattributed Clues

### Run goals

- Figure out the meaning of the fully-filled-in chess cipher
- Get your academic shit together, draft 9 Classrooms, and finish the final exam
- Figure out how to open the blue holly door

### Unanswered Questions

- Are doors with keyholes just _potentially_ locked, and doors without keyholes never locked?
- The insurgent group that these people seemed to be a part of was called "The Children of Black Water," which seems to be a parallel name to "Blackbridge" being the network and grotto name. Their group is also called RLCF - what does that stand for?
- Does the three-mountain (overlapping triangles) symbol mean anything significant?
- East gate access on the grounds?
- The Den clocks have markings on them suggesting that the following times may be significant:
  - 3:45 (--)
  - 9:15 (--)
  - 11:05 (V)
  - 12:55 (V)
  - 1:55?? (the V is a little ambiguous)
- If "major" means "short name" in Erajan, what does "minor" mean? (if anything)
- The birdbath by the outdoor entrance to the Basement has flagstones arranged around it in a circle of 8, with an outer circle of 16 stones. This seems significant. (planet clues from 3rd era map?)
- Staff contracts are apparently available somehow in Room 46...
- There are some dead-end blueprints in the directory with italicized words in them:
  - "only": Foundation (not dead end)
  - "Rotunda": Rotunda (not dead end)
  - "always": Locker Room (not dead end)
  - "or improve": Workshop (not dead end)
  - "drafted": Coat Check
  - "The Room Before": Antechamber (not dead end)
  - "bequest": Room 46 (technically a dead end(?), doesn't have keyword)
  - "laid to rest": Geist Bedroom
  - "always": Lavatory
  - "sacred hour": Clock Tower
- Sacred hour = 1:30
- There may be a relationship between the term "dead end" used in _A New Clue_ and the Tomb (see associated note from the tomb).
- There is a blue holly door in the unknown tunnel - how does it open?
- How do we get to the cave with swords and graves in it?
- Things that could use a closer look from the original manuscript of _A New Clue_:
  - ✓ The Secret Passage (chess letters?)
  - The Nook
  - "Under beds and in nooks" (with a blue X underneath the word "beds", and "nooks" is underlined with a note pointing to it which says "too obvious?")
  - "Directory is a trajectory," when talking about Margle's directory which is "22 rooms short of completion" (which would be 110 - 22 = 88)
  - Candles in a room with a king (possibly a rook), a statue of Orinda (scepter angel), and assorted stone blocks (maybe rubble)
- Related to the _A New Clue_ manuscript but also a found note: what does it mean for the treble clef to be "denoted in verse?" This seems like it might be a play on "inverse," but what the treble clef is used in relation to is a mystery - the music sheet notes don't seem to have any way that could be meaningful.
- Is there any more meaning behind the two cuckoo clocks? (as in the note in the manuscript "CUCKOO TWO")
- How does one access surveillance footage from the security terminal?
  - Tapes around the terminal:
    - C 1 2
    - C 2 3
    - B 1 2
    - B 4 5
    - A 5 6

### Behind Chess Castle Chamber

Mora Jai boxes:

"IN ARIES COURT WHERE THE KING NOW LAYS"

"ON THE SACRED HOUR THAT TIMEWORN PHRASE"

"WILL A YOUTH APPROACH WITH EMPTY ARMS"

"WITHOUT GIFTS NOR GOLD NOR MANNERED CHARMS"

"THE BLACK KEY IS LYING WITH THE LAST KING OF EIGHT"

"A PATIENT FIGURE A RECKONING GREAT"

"A SULLEN CROSS AS FIVE STARS ALIGN"

"AND IN SKY ABOVE A BRILLIANT SIGN"


### Utility Closet

- Can toggle off keycard system
- Four breaker switch locations
  - Gymnasium (power off removes the penalty for entering)
  - Dark room (power on removes the penalty for the light being off)
  - Garage (power on allows the door to open, allowing access to the west grounds)
  - Cabinet (crossed out and no switch present)

### Garage

- The car keys unlock the boot, which contains an item and the Secret Garden key (if Secret Garden key is not already found)

### Shelter (outer room)

- Terminal with these options:
  - Time-lock safe
    - must set time at least one hour in future (date + time)
    - safe will remain open for 4 hours once opened
  - Radiation Monitor
  - Login to network
    - requires password
- radiation is generated by experiments in the Laboratory
- if radiation reading is 12 uSv or higher, all doors in the house will unlock (this appears to require a LOT of experiment procs)

### Laboratory

- Experiments can alter conditions (seems to usually be an "when X then Y" type of arrangement)

### Freezer

- Cannot be drafted the day after it is drafted.
- Furnace 2 spaces away (1 space in between) is sufficient to thaw the freezer
- Seems likely that a room with a lit fireplace adjacent may also thaw the freezer
- Note regarding temperature found in lab indicates that thawing does not affect the contents of the cooler.
- Cooler contains a frozen prism key and a frozen document
- Can thaw your accounts at a Furnace or a Sauna (maybe fireplaces too?)

### Library

- checkout system is another "holdover" mechanic where the results is available after the end of that day
- book selection menu appears to be the same no matter what

#### _A New Clue_

- The pile of books by the detective has the following titles, which are anagrams:
  - TENDER CIPHER (THE RED PRINCE)
  - LUNAR RENAMED (REALM AND RUNE)
  - UNCLE AWE (A NEW CLUE)
  - DRAFT THE SIXES (THE FIXED STARS)

- _A New Clue_ includes a picture of a woman with a yellow turn sign
- _A New Clue_ letter -> order key: X -> Y -> Z -> A -> B -> C
  - X:8 Y:7 Z:3 A:10 B:1 C:13
- has a purple cover
- published by "Sundial Publishing, 1988"

"Assume page count starts on title pages"
  - RED page A word X (The Red Prince, page 10 word 8, "turn")
  - GREEN page C word A (Realm and Rune, page 13 word 10, "scorched")
  - VIOLET page B word Y (A New Clue, page 1 word 7, "sundial")
  - BLUE page Z word X (The Fixed Stars, page 3 word 8, "base")

A picture of the detective in a hall of records, reading a blueprint with a hammer and a blue + gold urn behind him

> This was an urn in the front hall, which contained a microchip

On the blackboard:
- Merry/Mary (arrow to smudged out face)
- Gates/Gaits
- Right / Write
- Draft the sixes

```
He had looked high and low(8) in(12) all(1) of the rooms,(5 14)
He had searched every corner(3) in each of the(13) tombs,
In this particular case,(4 9) he had(6) checked(2) every space.
If he found(11 7) a new clue,(10) he'd know what to do.
```

> "all checked corner case rooms had found low case clue found in the rooms"

As per above, the list of "corner case" rooms is as follows:

```
Corner Cases
  Parlor
✓ Patio
✓ Nook
✓ Office
  Library
✓ Pantry
```
- Patio: "buried"
- Nook: "beside"
- Office: "west"
- Pantry: "bridge"

> This led to a dig spot next to the West Bridge, which contained a microchip

"DEAD end" -> x y z a b **C**
"~ MAJOR KEY"

`ma|jor`

"Seen all the (stop sign) signs? (yellow diamond sign)" -> followed by 10 (blank?) horizontal lines

SIGNS: Route 8 (down?), Depart, Keep Left, To Tanner Fork, (right turn icon), dead end, record, each, stop, on the way

Following metro map: (8) Royal Station -> (7) Angel Tower -> (3) Aries Crossing -> (10)

- root cellar has a family tree of Mary Epsen and her ancestors

### Boiler Room

Can interact with:
- Laboratory
- Garage
- Laundry Room
- Furnace
- Pump Room

### Pump Room

Can interact with:
- Pool
- Aquarium
- Greenhouse
- Kitchen (although this seems to have no meaningful effect)
- Reservoir
- Fountain

### Blackbridge Grotto

Can use one offline terminal per day.

Account keys are first four letters of last name followed by first initial, 1st and 5th character capitalized)

Accessed initially with Anne Babbage's account.

Archive access apparently also exists, but no account currently known has this access. (can view deleted logs/db entries)

Offsite connections are still disabled.

Backup physical server units are kept in "cold storage" in the closet in the Freezer

There are two server units which are ~maidenless~ lightless, these may have to be replaced with the "cold storage" units?

### Greenhouse

The greenhouse contains a broken lever which opens the South Antechamber door.

The greenhouse can grow plants which produce gems.

### Tomb

There may be a releationship between the term "dead end" used in _A New Clue_ and the Tomb (see associated note from the tomb).

### Catacombs

- Accessible via Tomb after manipulating the angel statues in this order:
  - farmer, hoe (I)
  - cook, shovel (II)
  - ranch, pitchfork (III)
  - chimney sweep, duster (IV)
  - maid, broom (V)
  - rider, crop (VI)
  - knight, scepter (VII)
- See catacombs map screenshots in the images directory.
- Abandoned Mines is accessible from the door with an arrow (back to the left), has an open round area with eight hallways, of which you enter in one. A cogged platform in the middle seems to be able to spin, and can connect two hallways which are separated by two other hallways (i.e. gear with 8 cogs has longer cogs on cog 1 and cog 4)
- A second gear below the immediately visible one suggests that the entire assembly can be raised, making one gear capable of connection two of eight hallways on the _upper_ level and the bottom one capable of connecting the bottom hallways.
- Following further enters the Reservoir, which at full height has an inaccessible boat. Accessing the boat likely requires a specific amount of water to be drained from the Reservoir.
- Beyond the Reservoir is the Basement Door which provides access via the drained fountain regardless of whether the Tomb is present (any amount of water in the fountain makes this inaccessible).

### Classroom

- requires Schoolhouse outer room to be in draft pool
- every student's favorite color is red? (PATRIOTISM)
- Grade 8 is followed by a final exam if 9 classrooms are drafted
- -1 * 2 + 3 - 4 + 5 * 6 - 7 + 8 * 9 + 10
  - "8" is sideways like the South pole continent symbol
  - three ways to interpret this
    - actual math order of operations: 102
    - strictly left-to-right: 118
    - grouping operations in the same order as the dartboard: 1512
- **GRADE 1:** Color worksheet (no idea if this is important, but WHO KNOWS) correct key:
  - wagon: red
  - hydrant: red
  - flag with heart: orange
  - pumpkin: orange
  - bananas: yellow
  - blueprint: blue
  - lizard: green
  - broccoli: green
  - flag with mountain: yellow
  - pond: blue
  - flag with hourglass: purple
  - grapes: purple
- **GRADE 2:** Math worksheet (guide to Billiard Room puzzle)
- **GRADE 3:** Element spelling: At, I, W, Te, S, Er, Ce, Am
  - W At Er
  - I Ce
  - S Te Am
- **GRADE 4:** [MUCH GEOGRAPHY](./geography.md)
- **GRADE 5:** Explanation of art puzzle
- **GRADE 6:** History, Fenn Aries edition
  - After the war, Fenn Aries demolished the railways
  - In the victory picture, fireworks are being shot which are yellow, green, and red.
  - Quiz:
    - Who was the first crowned ruler of Fenn Aries? General Teskin
    - Which city in Fenn Aries is named after a person? Oris
    - How many sons did the Fourth King of Orindia have? Two (he had a daughter as well)
    - How long did the "War of the Fifth Era" last? 22 years
    - Which Realm did not ally with Fenn Aries during the war? Eraja
    - What flag was forbidden to be flown at full-staff after the war? Black Flag
- **GRADE 7:** Advanced math
  - Square: square the result of that step
  - Diamond: transpose the digits of the result of that step
  - Wavy lines: round to the digit corresponding to how many wavy lines there are (1: 1s, 2: 10s, 3: 100s)
- **GRADE 8:** Erajan Language [(see language doc)](./erajan-language.md)
- **GRADE 9:** Final exam

### Secret Garden

- access by using the Secret Garden key on a door leading to the East or West wing (east & west appear to be functionally identical)
- has a moon shrine symbol accessible via brick wall switch
- has a sigil for Orinda Aries accessible via brick wall switch

### Greenhouse

- there is a suspicious door-looking indentation in the brick wall (seems to match similar in Secret Garden)

### The Precipice

Chess puzzle:

| Pawn      | Knight    | Bishop    | Rook      | Queen     | King      |
|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|-----------|
| Den       | Obsrvatry | Chapel    | Nook      | Study     | Office    |
| Storeroom | Security  | Bookshop  | Vault     | Lady's Rm | Throne Rm |
| Scrt Pass | Armory    | Attic     | Consrvtry |           |           |
| Parlour   | Treasure  | Rumpus Rm | Clock Twr |           |           |
| Nursery   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Drwing Rm |           |           |           |           |           |
| WlkInClst |           |           |           |           |           |
| Bedroom   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Dining Rm |           |           |           |           |           |
| Drftng Rm |           |           |           |           |           |
| Guest Bdm |           |           |           |           |           |
| Solarium  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Bunk Room |           |           |           |           |           |
| Lost&Fnd  |           |           |           |           |           |
| Freezer   |           |           |           |           |           |
| Dorm      |           |           |           |           |           |

Broken wall puzzle:

| 1 | 2 | 3 |
|---|---|---|
| C | I | X |
| A | D | D |
| S | I | X |
| T | O | R |
| L | O | R |
| E | T | T |

from kennel:
```
C
A


 T
```

from server room post-it:
```
 I

 I
 O
 O
```

from locker room note:
```
SIX
 OR
 O
```

from cloister statue:
```
C X


E T
```

from back of secret passage door:
```
  D

 O
 OR
```

### Billiard Room

Colors/operators
- square(bullseye): literal square (^2), operates on total of the ring with the same color
- light blue: addition
- yellow: subtraction
- pink: multiplication
- purple: division

### Basement

- Business card with teapot depicted on stand, "Hundred Bells" over it, handwritten note says "Sandy Heights 5 PM"
  - Hundred Bells Tea Room is near Trinsdale Lake, and is open to the public for lunch on Mondays and Fridays

### Gallery

Contents are as follows:

- THICK (k is thinner font face) with a hand flying overhead grasping manacles, with shooting stardust coming out of the wrist
  - 5 letters (THICK?)
- Eyeballs with "Actual Objective" sign, bottle labeled "GENU" on a table made out of the letters "VERI"
  - 7 letters
- Infinity symbol pierced with many nails supported by two columns in a stone-block room, bins labeled with each of the 7 deadly sins around. Animal-skin rug in front, framed picture of a shark fin on the left.
  - 8 letters
- Two (radio flyer style) wagons in midair, each holding a rose, an apple, a stop sign, and a fire hydrant. A large block "P" is also on top of the wagon on the right
  - 6 letters

### Room 46

Two clocks on the wall are stopped at 1:30.

Four(ish) busts:
- Sinclair (man)
- Epsen (woman)
- Jones (boy, ME)
- Marigold (empty plinth)

Rough map of the world with 8 numbered tacks (1-8) and a handwritten note "8 realms in 8 months." Notably, there are only 7 interactable countries on this map. This may mean that both Orinda Aries and Fenn Aries need to be represented in the solution (in the same location).

> _This is solved, see the geography doc._

The bookshelf has a miniature red wagon with a rose and an apple in it (reference to the Gallery piece?)

The fireplace has the realm icons over the top of it in this order: ticket, pentagon, hourglass, mountain, V, diagonal jigsaw, arch, diamond.

### Inner Sanctum Rooms

Sanctum key locations:

✓ "The first key found here on the furthest rank,"
  - Located in Room 46

✓ "The second locked tight in the vault of a bank,"
  - no shit

✓ "The third is high up, among all the clocks,"
  - Clock Tower
  - See poetic note about swans and directions

✓ "And the fourth down below, beneath all the docks."
  - "the pink boxes do not contain any prizes" (blue)
  - "a prize is in a box marked by 'flame icon'" (unknown)
  - "the box containing allowance tokens is white" (unknown)
  - "the green notes you find in this room will always be true" (green, is true)
  - "green memos in white boxes are always lies" (blue)
  - "two realms have the same color banner" (green, is false because white box)

✓ "The fifth key is held by a king on his throne."
  - The Throne Room is now an available blueprint

✓ "The sixth in a station, left by one of your own,"
  - Safehouse acessible via reservoir boat @ 6 pips of water

✓ "The seventh is major if you draft it quite late,"
  - Draft Music Room in 9th rank

"And the last key is waiting, behind the last door of eight."
  - Mechanarium (many doors with many gears)

These rooms each have a mechanism for the sigil of one realm.

### Great Hall

Layout of which doors lead where changes on a daily basis.

### Passports

All so far are Fenn Aries passports issued Jan 10 1984, expiring 10 years later

- Jean Ribbon, DOB July 9, 1956 -- # 455 / FA815112
- Samantha Hayes, DOB Jan 12, 1954, ID page is marked with red X -- # 455 / FA815544
- Grey Daniels, DOB May 1, 1956, ID page is marked "compromised" in red -- # 455 / FA815232

### Observatory

For a given star count, the constellations seen are deterministic. I'm not gonna try to optimize that shit though.

### Safehouse

- Station platform wall to the left (by the "Platform 8" sign) seems as if there might be something behind it.

### Angels/Paragons

- Orinda: Royalty, scepter
- Lydia: Rider, crop
- Rynna: Farmer, hoe
- Joya: Cook
- Dauja: Rancher, pitchfork
- Veia: Chimney sweep, duster, top hat
- Mila: Maid, broom
- Draxus: Death, obvious implement

The above order opens the alcove behind the Draxus statue, which contains the original manuscripts of _The Red Prince_ and _A New Clue_.

### Aquarium

Several rooms are represented in the tanks:
- Archives (↑ in front of a filing cabinet in the middle of two bookshelves)
- Bedroom
- Patio (X in front of smoker)
- Laundry (X in front of middle WASHING machine (top-load))
- Corridor

> _This led to the filing cabinet keys._

### Her Ladyship's Chamber

Her diary, room of sleep with effects:
- Her Ladyship's Chamber: Awoke following morning with 10 less steps but additional star in the sky
- Guest Bedroom: Nothing special
- Bunk Room: Family tomb grave had a flower on it (gem flower)
- Servant's Quarters: Half steps following day, with a bonus die
- Master Bedroom: More steps than usual (double?)

Antechamber shown in outer room (leads to special shrine with note)

### Numeric Cores

- Take any number with four or more digits. Withotu changing the sequence, split that number into four smaller numbers (ex: `86455` becomes `8` `6` `45` `5`)
- Next, assign each a different color, resulting in a valid mathematical equation that produces the smallest whole number possible. The first number should always be assigned teal to begin with a postive number. (ex: `+ 8 - 6 x 45 / 5`)
- If the result is a number with more than three digits, repeat the above process. The final number you obtain that is less than four digits is considered the "numeric core" of the larger number. (ex: `18`)

Examples:
- `86455`
- Becomes `8`, `6`, `45`, `5`
- Becomes `+ 8 , - 6, x 45, / 8`
- Core = `18`

- `3614`
- Becomes `3`, `6`, `1`, `4`
- Becomes `+ 3, x 6, / 1, - 4`
- Core = `14`

### Curse of Black Bridge

- There is a cave with swords and graves (seen before in Alzara vision)
- There is a stone effigy marking a grave in that cave
- That effigy likely curses you to only have 12 steps left
